okay this quick trip I made up to scout
more wind farms the largest onshore wind
farm in England
it's got 26 turbines and total capacity
of 65 megawatts with a typical
production of 150 gigawatt hours per
year it lies on some high lying moorland
in Lancashire close to the town of
Rochdale it was built while construction
started in 2007 and was completed in
2008 and was very controversial during
its construction but the environmental
impacts have perhaps not be as severe as
were originally felt and however it is
quite dominating the turbines are
visible from close to 30 to 40 miles
away so in terms of its visibility it's
quite
facing turbines just towering over us in
the distance just probably just about
see a little tiny baby one just spinning
at about ten times the rate of the
others quite windy we're getting very
close to the summit just hear the wind
whistling the blade
interesting warning signs here danger of
falling icicles well I think we're
already past that good 2500 kilowatts
rotor diameter 80 meters height of hub
above-ground 60 meters door here had
locked all sorts of various guards and
stuff danger of death no admittance
warning turbine guard this detects
illegal activity
I'll show you this place
you can hear it's sort of whistling as
play to run past the whole thing whole
scene has little rumbling buzz to it if
I were to put my hand up against
native wildlife make noise